\mainpage

# Autonomy Software

Welcome to the Autonomy Software repository of the Mars Rover Design Team (MRDT) at Missouri University of Science and Technology (Missouri S&T)! This repository contains the source code, documentation, and other resources for the development of the Autonomy Software for our Mars Rover. The Autonomy Software project aims to compete in the University Rover Challenge (URC) by demonstrating advanced autonomous capabilities and robust navigation algorithms.

### API Documentation
Everytime a commit is made to the development branch, a GitHub Action is ran that autonomatically generates documentation for files, classes, methods, functions, namespaces, etc. using Doxygen. To ensure that Doxygen can properly document and use your comments, make sure to use the documentation templates HERE. If you're running the development container in VSCode the templates can be automatically generated by typing `/**<enter>`. Regardless, all file, method, and function documentation must be use the template's style across the whole project.

#### [Autonomy_Software API Docs HERE](https://missourimrdt.github.io/Autonomy_Software/)


## Overview

The Autonomy Software project is organized into different directories, each serving a specific purpose. Here's a brief overview of the directories:

- **algorithms**: Contains C++ files related to the algorithms used in our Rover project. These files implement the core functionality and logic necessary for autonomous navigation, perception, and decision-making.

- **interfaces**: Contains C++ files related to the physical systems, boards, microcontrollers, or sensors on our Rover. These files handle the communication and interaction with external hardware components, ensuring seamless integration and data exchange.

- **states**: Contains C++ files related to the state machine code of our Rover. These files define the different states and transitions that govern the Rover's behavior, allowing for efficient task execution and adaptability to changing conditions.

- **util**: Contains utility scripts and helper functions used in our Rover project. These files provide various tools and functionalities to support development, debugging, and project management tasks, increasing overall efficiency and code reusability.

- **vision**: Contains C++ files related to vision processing or computer vision algorithms used in our Rover. These files enable the Rover to process visual data, such as images or videos, and extract meaningful information for autonomous navigation and object recognition.

- **tests**: Contains test cases and test scripts to ensure the correctness and reliability of our Autonomy Software. These files help validate the functionality and performance of our code, ensuring robustness and accuracy in real-world scenarios.

- **tools**: Contains files that provide utility scripts, development tools, or miscellaneous functionalities for our project. These files assist in various development tasks, such as data analysis, visualization, or simulation, enhancing the overall development experience.

- **external**: Contains external dependencies, libraries, or third-party modules used in our Rover project. These files are essential for the project's functionality and are organized based on their purpose or source, ensuring proper integration and compliance with licensing requirements.

- **examples**: Contains example code snippets, demos, or sample implementations related to our Rover project. These files showcase specific functionalities, best practices, or usage scenarios, helping us understand and leverage the capabilities of our Autonomy Software effectively.

- **docs**: Contains documentation files and resources for our Rover project. These files provide comprehensive and accessible documentation to guide developers, users, and contributors in understanding, configuring, and extending the Autonomy Software.

- **data**: Contains data files and resources used in our Rover project. These files include sensor data, training data, configuration files, map data, simulation data, and log files, facilitating the development, testing, and analysis of our autonomy algorithms.

The **src** directory serves as the main source code directory and contains the algorithms, interfaces, states, util, and vision directories mentioned above.

## Getting Started

To get started with our Autonomy Software development, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine using the command:
   ```
   git clone --recurse-submodules -j8 https://github.com/MissouriMRDT/Autonomy_Software.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the cloned directory:
   ```
   cd Autonomy_Software
   ```

3. Explore the different directories to understand the structure and purpose of each.

4. Refer to the specific README files within each directory for detailed information and guidelines on organizing files and using the functionalities.

5. Install any required dependencies or external libraries mentioned in the documentation or README files.

6. Start developing
